README.md, before:

<div align='center'>

![kojo](images/kojo.png)

Kojo Configuration Ninja
==================================================

[![Gem Version](https://badge.fury.io/rb/kojo.svg)](https://badge.fury.io/rb/kojo)
[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.com/DannyBen/kojo.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.com/DannyBen/kojo)
[![Maintainability](https://api.codeclimate.com/v1/badges/f24566ad04b5054a2251/maintainability)](https://codeclimate.com/github/DannyBen/kojo/maintainability)


Kojo helps you generate configuration files from templates, using variables 
and definition files.  
It is a command line utility, and it works on any text file format.

</div>

---

Table of Contents
--------------------------------------------------

- [Installation](#installation)
- [Usage](#usage)
  - [Variables](#variables)
  - [Import](#import)
  - [Transform an Entire Folder](#transform-an-entire-folder)
  - [Transform One to Many using Config](#transform-one-to-many-using-config)
  - [Transform One to Many using Front Matter](#transform-one-to-many-using-front-matter)
  - [Conditions and Loops with ERB](#conditions-and-loops-with-erb)
- [Interactive Mode](#interactive-mode)
- [Using from Ruby Code](#using-from-ruby-code)

---

Installation
--------------------------------------------------

    $ gem install kojo



Usage
--------------------------------------------------

If you prefer to learn by example, see the [examples](examples#examples) folder for 
several use cases. Each example subfolder contains the command to run, the 
relevant files, and the expected output.


### Variables

![kojo](images/features-vars.svg)

Include variables in your configuration templates by using this syntax: 
`%{varname}`

- Variables can be provided through the command line, or when using `@import`.
- When one or more variables are not provided, you [will be prompted to provide
  a value](#interactive-mode).
- Variables from the top level will be forwarded downstream, and aggregated 
  with any additional variables that are defined in subsequent `@imports`.



### Import

![kojo](images/features-import.svg)

Use the `@import filename` directive anywhere to include another file in the
resulting configuration file.

- The `@import` directive should be the only thing in the line.
- The indentation will be respected when importing.
- The `filename` parameter does not have to include an extension - Kojo will
  use the same extension as the parent file.
- The included file will be searched for relative to the file it is included 
  in.
- Arguments can be passed down to the included template by using this syntax:

```ruby
@import filename (arg: "value", arg2: "value")
```

The space after `filename` is optional.



### Transform an Entire Folder

![kojo](images/features-dir.svg)

Process a folder containing templates and `@imports`, and generate a mirror
output folder, with all the variables and `@imports` evaluated.

You may use `%{variables}` in filenames.



### Transform One to Many using Config

![kojo](images/features-config.svg)

Using the `kojo config` command together with a simple definitions file, you
can:

1. Generate multiple output files based on a single template file
2. Generate multiple output directories, based on a single source directory.

To achieve this, you need to:

1. Create the configuration template or directory of templates.
2. Create a configuration YAML file using this syntax:

```yaml
input: base-template.yml

output:
  outfile1.yml:
    argument1: value
    argument2: value

  outfile2.yml:
    argument1: value
    argument2: value
```

When using a folder as input, simply provide the folder name in the `input` 
property, and instead of providing desired output filenames in the `output`
property, provide desired output directories:

```yaml
input: base

output:
  app1:
    argument1: value
    argument2: value

  app2:
    argument1: value
    argument2: value
```

### Transform One to Many using Front Matter

![kojo](images/features-single.svg)

Define a template that contains the instructions on how to transform it as a
YAML front matter.

The YAML front matter should be structured like this:

```yaml
filename2:
  arg: value
  another_arg: value

filename2:
  arg: value
  another_arg: value
---
Your template that uses %{arg} goes here
...
```

Additional arguments provided to the command line, will also be transferred
to the template.

### Conditions and Loops with ERB

![kojo](images/features-erb.svg)

Template files are evaluated using ERB, so you can use any Ruby code for more
advanced templates (for conditions, loops etc.).

Use this syntax for ruby code:

```erb
<%- ruby code here -%>     # for code that should not be printed
<%= ruby code here -%>     # for code that should be printed
```


Interactive Mode
--------------------------------------------------

When Kojo encounters a variable that was not supplied (either through the command 
line or through a configuration file), it will prompt for a value.

![kojo](images/interactive-mode.gif)



Using from Ruby Code
--------------------------------------------------

Although Kojo was primarily designed as a command line utility, you can also
use it as a library from your Ruby code.

These are the primary classes:

| Class                       | Description                                  | CLI equivalent
|-----------------------------|----------------------------------------------|---------------
| `Kojo::Template`            | generate from a single template              | `kojo file`
| `Kojo::FrontMatterTemplate` | generate from a template with a front matter | `kojo single`
| `Kojo::Config`              | generate from config file                    | `kojo config`
| `Kojo::Collection`          | generate from directory                      | `kojo dir`

### Examples

```ruby
# Template
template = Kojo::Template.new 'examples/variables/main.yml'
result = template.render domain: 'example.com', scale: 2
puts result

# Collection
collection = Kojo::Collection.new 'examples/dir'
collection.import_base = 'examples/dir/imports'

params = { env: 'env', app: 'app' }
result = collection.render params do |path, content|
  # code to handle results here
end

# Config
config = Kojo::Config.new 'examples/config-from-file/config.yml'
config.import_base = "examples/config-from-file/imports"

config.generate do |path, content|
  # code to handle results here
end

# FrontMatterTemplate
template = Kojo::FrontMatterTemplate.new 'examples/single/Dockerfile'
params = { version: '0.1.1' }

result = template.render params do |path, content|
  # code to handle results here
end

```

Commit message:

update readme for interactive setting

README.md, after:

<div align='center'>

![kojo](images/kojo.png)

Kojo Configuration Ninja
==================================================

[![Gem Version](https://badge.fury.io/rb/kojo.svg)](https://badge.fury.io/rb/kojo)
[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.com/DannyBen/kojo.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.com/DannyBen/kojo)
[![Maintainability](https://api.codeclimate.com/v1/badges/f24566ad04b5054a2251/maintainability)](https://codeclimate.com/github/DannyBen/kojo/maintainability)


Kojo helps you generate configuration files from templates, using variables 
and definition files.  
It is a command line utility, and it works on any text file format.

</div>

---

Table of Contents
--------------------------------------------------

- [Installation](#installation)
- [Usage](#usage)
  - [Variables](#variables)
  - [Import](#import)
  - [Transform an Entire Folder](#transform-an-entire-folder)
  - [Transform One to Many using Config](#transform-one-to-many-using-config)
  - [Transform One to Many using Front Matter](#transform-one-to-many-using-front-matter)
  - [Conditions and Loops with ERB](#conditions-and-loops-with-erb)
- [Interactive Mode](#interactive-mode)
- [Using from Ruby Code](#using-from-ruby-code)

---

Installation
--------------------------------------------------

    $ gem install kojo



Usage
--------------------------------------------------

If you prefer to learn by example, see the [examples](examples#examples) folder for 
several use cases. Each example subfolder contains the command to run, the 
relevant files, and the expected output.


### Variables

![kojo](images/features-vars.svg)

Include variables in your configuration templates by using this syntax: 
`%{varname}`

- Variables can be provided through the command line, or when using `@import`.
- When one or more variables are not provided, you [will be prompted to provide
  a value](#interactive-mode).
- Variables from the top level will be forwarded downstream, and aggregated 
  with any additional variables that are defined in subsequent `@imports`.



### Import

![kojo](images/features-import.svg)

Use the `@import filename` directive anywhere to include another file in the
resulting configuration file.

- The `@import` directive should be the only thing in the line.
- The indentation will be respected when importing.
- The `filename` parameter does not have to include an extension - Kojo will
  use the same extension as the parent file.
- The included file will be searched for relative to the file it is included 
  in.
- Arguments can be passed down to the included template by using this syntax:

```ruby
@import filename (arg: "value", arg2: "value")
```

The space after `filename` is optional.



### Transform an Entire Folder

![kojo](images/features-dir.svg)

Process a folder containing templates and `@imports`, and generate a mirror
output folder, with all the variables and `@imports` evaluated.

You may use `%{variables}` in filenames.



### Transform One to Many using Config

![kojo](images/features-config.svg)

Using the `kojo config` command together with a simple definitions file, you
can:

1. Generate multiple output files based on a single template file
2. Generate multiple output directories, based on a single source directory.

To achieve this, you need to:

1. Create the configuration template or directory of templates.
2. Create a configuration YAML file using this syntax:

```yaml
input: base-template.yml

output:
  outfile1.yml:
    argument1: value
    argument2: value

  outfile2.yml:
    argument1: value
    argument2: value
```

When using a folder as input, simply provide the folder name in the `input` 
property, and instead of providing desired output filenames in the `output`
property, provide desired output directories:

```yaml
input: base

output:
  app1:
    argument1: value
    argument2: value

  app2:
    argument1: value
    argument2: value
```

### Transform One to Many using Front Matter

![kojo](images/features-single.svg)

Define a template that contains the instructions on how to transform it as a
YAML front matter.

The YAML front matter should be structured like this:

```yaml
filename2:
  arg: value
  another_arg: value

filename2:
  arg: value
  another_arg: value
---
Your template that uses %{arg} goes here
...
```

Additional arguments provided to the command line, will also be transferred
to the template.

### Conditions and Loops with ERB

![kojo](images/features-erb.svg)

Template files are evaluated using ERB, so you can use any Ruby code for more
advanced templates (for conditions, loops etc.).

Use this syntax for ruby code:

```erb
<%- ruby code here -%>     # for code that should not be printed
<%= ruby code here -%>     # for code that should be printed
```


Interactive Mode
--------------------------------------------------

When Kojo encounters a variable that was not supplied (either through the command 
line or through a configuration file), it will prompt for a value.

![kojo](images/interactive-mode.gif)

You can enable or disable interactive mode by setting the environment
variable `KOJO_INTERACTIVE` to `yes` or `no`.

By default, interactivity is enabled when running the CLI, and disabled when
running from within Ruby code.

When running from within Ruby code, you can also use `Kojo.interactive = true`
and `Kojo.interactive?` to get the current state.


Using from Ruby Code
--------------------------------------------------

Although Kojo was primarily designed as a command line utility, you can also
use it as a library from your Ruby code.

These are the primary classes:

| Class                       | Description                                  | CLI equivalent
|-----------------------------|----------------------------------------------|---------------
| `Kojo::Template`            | generate from a single template              | `kojo file`
| `Kojo::FrontMatterTemplate` | generate from a template with a front matter | `kojo single`
| `Kojo::Config`              | generate from config file                    | `kojo config`
| `Kojo::Collection`          | generate from directory                      | `kojo dir`

### Examples

```ruby
# Template
template = Kojo::Template.new 'examples/variables/main.yml'
result = template.render domain: 'example.com', scale: 2
puts result

# Collection
collection = Kojo::Collection.new 'examples/dir'
collection.import_base = 'examples/dir/imports'

params = { env: 'env', app: 'app' }
result = collection.render params do |path, content|
  # code to handle results here
end

# Config
config = Kojo::Config.new 'examples/config-from-file/config.yml'
config.import_base = "examples/config-from-file/imports"

config.generate do |path, content|
  # code to handle results here
end

# FrontMatterTemplate
template = Kojo::FrontMatterTemplate.new 'examples/single/Dockerfile'
params = { version: '0.1.1' }

result = template.render params do |path, content|
  # code to handle results here
end

```
